#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Culture Assignment: View Direction Adaptive Video for VR Optimization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Asa Hayes – CSCE-221-506
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing double
While virtual reality is one of the fastest growing parts of the tech industry
 right now, it is currently trying to overcome a large hurdle: hardware.
 While the amount of VR applications being made is growing at a high rate
 due to the possible applications, use and adoption is lagging heavily behind
 because of the resources required to do it.
 As far as consumer use, one has to have essentially the top of line for
 every involved component.
 Hardware, and specifically graphics hardware is trying to move along to
 match due to demand, but solutions are still needed for the interim.
 One of the current paths to optimization is selective compression of the
 video streaming component, which is the approach taken from the article
 covered.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing double
The basic premise of the approach is to have the total 360° stream mapped
 onto a sphere like regular VR video format, but have it divided into a
 grid of smaller individual videos comprised of cropped parts of the HD
 source.
 The optimization comes from the division of these sub-videos, as they can
 be dynamically down-sampled in quality to reduce the necessary workload
 for streaming.
 To determine which of these subsections should stay at source quality and
 which can be put on the back-burner, the positional sensors are used to
 detect where on the sphere the user is looking.
 The algorithm used for detecting where the video is projected and for how
 high quality takes in the current yaw (horizontal orientation), pitch (vertical
 orientation) and roll (rotational orientation) of the VR headset as a composite
 vector.
 From this vector, a projection matrix and a rotation are created for the
 size and position of the priority field of view, namely the area the user
 is looking at.
 The projection matrix creates the total area to be shown on the sphere/grid
 (as a 2:1 rectangle) and the rotation matrix moves and centers that area
 to where the user is looking.
 From this new projected area, a simple three-part decision making process
 is used to determine if a piece of the grid is in the user's field of view
 and should be streamed at a higher quality: If the area contains a) one
 vertex of a section b) the center-point of a section or c) the entire section,
 said section is to be kept in high definition.
 All other sections are to be streamed in gradually lower quality as their
 distance from the main area increases, greatly lessening the resources
 needed for streaming all of the sections.
 Additional minor factors are the amount of sections, where higher amounts
 give marginally better bitrates up to a near negligible degree, and the
 available bandwidth, which would only factor in on the allocated quality
 when using a currently uncommon wireless VR display.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing double
The societal and economic impact of this implementation would not be immediate
 if implemented soon as we are currently in a transition period in regards
 to cost of both graphics and VR hardware, but once the next generations
 of both come out and the current hardware is more available, this technique
 will serve to extend the range of people that are able to access and develop
 for VR systems.
 Having the technical requirements be lowered from the dynamic down-sampling
 means that not only will the hardware that can run VR content become more
 and more attainable, the range of hardware that will support high-range
 VR applications would increase as well.
 Despite the current trend of having most VR software as video games right
 now, if VR is more accessible to others as a utility rather than just a
 toy for those with disposable income, the demand and utility of non-game
 VR software would most likely increase along with adoption.
 An increase of VR use like this would most likely trigger a big change
 in tech culture, similar to the boom in mobile devices that started around
 a decade ago.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

Kim, S.
 , Yun, J.
 , Jo, B.
 , Kim, J.
 , Chae, H.
 and Suh, D.
 (Jan.
 2018) View Direction Adaptive 360 Degree Video Streaming System Based on
 Projected Area.
 Journal of Computer and Communications, Vol.
 6 No.
 1, p.
 203-212.
 doi: 10.4236/jcc.2018.61020.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
